Summary
Axios versions with Node.js HTTP/2 support can terminate the caller’s process when a ClientHttp2Session emits an error event that is not handled by axios.

This affects applications that use the Node HTTP adapter with httpVersion: 2. A malicious, unavailable, or non-HTTP/2 endpoint can cause an uncaught exception instead of a normal rejected axios request.

Impact
The impact is denial of service. In affected applications, an attacker who can influence the request destination, or operate the destination server, may be able to crash the Node.js process.

This does not affect default HTTP/1.1 usage, browser XHR/fetch adapters, or applications that do not enable axios HTTP/2 support.

Affected Functionality
Affected path:

Node.js HTTP adapter
httpVersion: 2
HTTP/2 session creation/reuse through Http2Sessions
Network/session failures emitted as ClientHttp2Session error events
Caller-controlled http2Options can make the issue easier to trigger, but passing arbitrary attacker input into axios config is caller-controlled behavior and should not be the primary advisory framing.

Technical Details
Http2Sessions.getSession() creates a session with http2.connect(authority, options) but only registers a close handler. It does not register an error handler on the returned ClientHttp2Session.

When the session emits error, Node treats it as an unhandled EventEmitter error and throws. This can bypass the normal axios Promise rejection path and terminate the process.

Proof of Concept of Attack
import axios from './index.js';

await axios.get('http://127.0.0.1:1/', {
  httpVersion: 2,
  timeout: 1000
});
Expected vulnerable behavior: the process exits with an uncaught ECONNREFUSED session error instead of only rejecting the axios request.

Workarounds
Disable axios HTTP/2 for untrusted or user-influenced destinations and use the default HTTP/1.1 adapter until a fixed release is available. Also avoid passing attacker-controlled values into http2Options; axios config is trusted application input.